[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Technology has made life
easier and more convenient
for people.
But as artificial intelligence
replaces our human interactions
and measures our
deepest emotions,
is artificial intelligence
becoming too human?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As the world recovers
from record unemployment
and millions of job
seekers apply for work,
many employers turn to
artificial intelligence
to help sort through
the applicants.
This is nothing new.
If you've applied online for a
job in the past 20 years or so,
your resume was
probably first screened
by a computer
looking for keywords.
But in recent years,
some companies
have reportedly
taken the next step,
using artificial intelligence
for the interview.
Imagine sitting down for
your online interview,
but instead of a person on the
other end, it's a computer.
It asks you questions,
records your answers,
then analyzes your face,
speech, and word choice
to see if you move on.
Proponents of the technology say
it takes out the inherent bias
that people bring
to the equation.
But don't computers and
algorithms hold biases?
Billy Carson, the founder
of Forbidden Knowledge
and the author of the
"Compendium of the Emerald
Tablets," on this technology.
>> I think that the pros of the
AI in the job setting is AI can
be trained very, very good
to judge a person, facial--
facial expressions,
if they may be
lying or maybe
slightly dishonest
or not telling the truth.
I think that the
cons for the AI could
be that there may be some issues
with the way that it reads.
Behind the scenes, there
could be parameters inserted
into the software,
and those parameters
could make the AI susceptible
to race, appearance, gender.
All those things can be
set-- preset parameters
that the AI is feeding off of
as it's making its decisions
or it's giving feedback.
So it's kind of risky
doing that because there's
no real true oversight.
It could make some
mistakes, and it
could be prone to some
errors that give the end
user some false results.
>> What about the lack
of human interaction?
>> Human beings have an
electromagnetic field that they
emit from their heart center.
And so this can project
between eight to 10 feet away
from the body.
Human beings literally
will interact and feed off
of each other's energy and
can detect each other's energy
in real science.
And that's just something that
an AI will not be able to do.
At least at this point,
AI cannot do that.
And so when human beings
are interacting and sensing
each other's energy, whether
it's high or low, good, bad,
or indifferent, and we're making
discernments about one another,
versus an AI that's
going strictly
by numeric parameters
that have been preset,
so all these things could
throw it off slightly.
So I think human interaction
is a much better choice.
>> Would you rather be rejected
by a human or a computer?
>> I think that I'd rather
be rejected by a person than
a computer.
At least I feel like
I got a good shot,
to be honest with you.
I mean, if I'm
talking to a person,
and I can kind of skew my
presentation or my question
or my answers to their
questions towards those.
But if I'm dealing
with an AI robot,
it becomes extremely ambiguous.
And all of a sudden, it becomes
very, very mundane and very,
very zero and one.
It's almost like a data--
I become like a
database to the AI.
>> One of the best phrases
a person can hear is,
"you're hired."
But better than that
might be, "I love you."
When it comes to
matters of the heart,
can technology help judge
human attractiveness?
In a new study out of the
University of Helsinki,
Finland, scientists attached
electrodes to subjects' heads,
showed them randomized
AI-created faces, and measured
their brain activity.
By measuring the
subject's brainwaves,
the AI was able to create the
ideal face that the individual
would be attracted to.
Beauty is in the
eye of the beholder,
and love is arguably our
deepest, most human emotion.
Should AI have a part in it?
And what could this technology
be used for in the future?
>> I think that using computers
to measure attraction is most
likely going to be used for
a lot of marketing tactics.
It's going to go heavy, heavy,
heavy into marketing and sales.
You know, it's kind of--
in a weird way, it's kind
of an invasion on privacy.
But scientists that
have been working
at these companies,
along with marketers,
are going to put
together software that's
going to allow computer
screens or cameras inside
of shopping stores
and so forth to detect
someone's affection for
something or another person.
And then it's going to
project marketing data
to that person, based
off of what they
feel their emotions are or
what they're attracted to.
>> The brainwave
study was interesting.
But as our lives move
more online, what
could be the unintended
consequences from this lack
of human connection?
>> I think that when you have
a situation where the world
starts moving towards
artificial lovers,
there's this connection or
disconnection that's going
to happen where before it
was a heart to heart biofield
connection.
Now it's going to
become more cold.
And I think it can
open up a person
to a lot of different types
of mental health issues,
like depression, PTSD,
when they realize
that this thing
that they're with
is not exactly what they
thought it was going to be.
They're not getting
their input back.
They're not getting that
energy back from it.
It's more like a one-way ticket.
Or I do feel that at
least what they're
doing with this, trying to sense
somebody's attraction levels,
are to target people
that are looking
for those alternative things
and also to market things
to them as well.
>> Is it time to reassess our
relationship with technology?
>> We're reaching
a fork in the road,
where technology can take us to
a golden age or it could take
us down a path to
complete darkness.
I do believe it's a fork.
I don't know if there's
any middle ground there.
We actually need
to eventually get
people in positions
of power or people
that are working at these tech
companies, that are conscious,
that are aware of-- who
have knowledge of self
and are aware of themselves
and have self-love and love
for others, so that we guide
it in the right path, the path
that it should be, helping
us move towards a golden age
where we have
extended lifespans.
That's the path that it
should be going down,
helping to enhance humanity
instead of detracting humanity.
>> Although technology has
helped the human condition
in many ways, we must
remember where technology ends
and our humanity begins.
And as Nobel Peace Prize winner
Christian Lous Lange once
wrote, "Technology
is a useful servant
but a dangerous master."
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.